---
layout: post
title: Jane Street 2020
category: jane-street
image: /img/bg5.jpg
---

# Dicey Situation

### **You have 3 six-sided dice and I have one 20-sided die. You roll all the three dice simultaneously and your score is the sum of the numbers you get. I roll my die once and my score is the number on the die. The person with a higher score wins. Who is more likely to win?**

**Answer**: Our first guess is checking the expected score for both sides, like so:

$$
\textrm{For the three dice:}\; \mathbb{E}\left( X_{1}+X_{2}+X_{3} \right) = \mathbb{E}X_{1} + \mathbb{E}X_{2} + \mathbb{E}X_{3} = 3 \times \frac{21}{6} = 10.5 
$$

$$
\textrm{For the 20 sided die:}\; \mathbb{E}X = \frac{1}{20}\sum_{i=1}^{20}i = 10.5 
$$

One could guess from here that they both are equally likely to win. But that's not enough: we also need to ensure that the expected value has the highest probability of occuring. Since the experiments above follow a binomial distribution, we know that the mean will have the highest probability, thus concluding the answer.


### **Let's now say I have a 20-sided dice and there are 50 other players each with 3 6-sided dice. Am I more likely to win that the other 50 players now?**

**Answer**: To win, my score must be greater than the score of any one of the other 50 players. Let's say the probability of any one of the 50 players winning is $P$. Without any loss of generality, we can claim that the probability of winning of each of the 50 players is $P$. Now all the probabilities must add up to one. In the extreme (hypothetical) case where the proability of me winning is $0$, we get an upper bound on $P=1/50$. 

Now if I were to roll $19$ or $20$, I would win regardless of what the others get. So there's a lower bound on the probability of me winning, i.e. $1/20$. Since the lower bound on me winning is larger than the upper bound of all the other players winning, it is likely that I will win.  
